README.md, before:

# whisper.cpp scripts

In this repo I openly store my scripts I use with [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp), which is a C++ implementation of OpenAI's Whisper model. The idea is to have a handy, easy-to-follow reference for those times when I need to circle back to using whisper.cpp after a while.

## Getting Started

You can skip the Core ML part for non-Apple Silicon devices.

1. Clone the whisper.cpp repository and build it with Core ML support by following its provided instructions.
2. Download the necessary ggml models and convert them to Core ML models as directed in the whisper.cpp documentation.

## Audio extraction

**`extract_audio.sh`**

This script extracts the audio track from a video file in a format compatible with whisper.cpp. Ensure `ffmpeg` is installed for audio extraction. Use Homebrew to install it by running `brew install ffmpeg`.

Usage:
- Execute the script with two arguments: the input video file and the output audio file.
- For example: `./extract_audio.sh input_video.mp4 output_audio.wav`

## Generating subtitles

**`generate_subs.sh`**

This script uses whisper.cpp to create subtitles from an audio file. Before usage, configure the script with the location of your whisper.cpp installation and the desired model.

Usage:
- Run the script with two arguments: the input audio file and the output SRT file.
- For example: `./generate_subs.sh input_audio.wav subtitles.srt`

## Real-time transcribing

**`stream.sh`**

This script relies on whisper.cpp's `stream` binary to transcribe audio in real-time from an audio capture device. 

If you're on Apple Silicon device, you can compile whisper.cpp's `stream` with Core ML support for better performance. Run the following in your whisper.cpp folder
```sh
WHISPER_COREML=1 make stream -j
```

Before usage, update the script with the location of your whisper.cpp installation, the chosen model, and the audio capturing device. Also, ensure that you have compiled the `stream` tool in whisper.cpp.

To find the list of available audio capture device IDs, execute the `stream` binary within whisper.cpp; it will display the supported devices.

Usage:
- Just run the script, for example: `./stream.sh`

#### Transcribing audio from system output

You can also transcribe live audio straight from your system's output using [BlackHole](https://github.com/ExistentialAudio/BlackHole) audio loopback driver. 

This is how it works
![Visual Guide](https://github.com/tartakynov/whispercpp-scripts/assets/946309/6cc1f3a4-26c9-4d50-a19c-c2f88ef633c6)

What you need to do:
1. Open the Audio MIDI Setup utility on your MacOS and create a Multi-Output Device. Make sure to include your preferred speakers and BlackHole as your output devices.
2. Then, select this new Multi-Output Device as your sound output.
3. Finally, specify BlackHole as the audio capture device for whisper.cpp.

A quick demo showing transcribing real-time audio from your browser. Don't forget to turn up the volume! 🔊

[demo.webm](https://github.com/tartakynov/whispercpp-scripts/assets/946309/f821354e-2e1f-45c8-947f-025e2a4b244d)

Commit message:

add whisper.cpp as a submodule

README.md, after:

# whisper.cpp scripts

In this repo I openly store my scripts I use with [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp), which is a C++ implementation of OpenAI's Whisper model. The idea is to have a handy, easy-to-follow reference for those times when I need to circle back to using whisper.cpp after a while.

## Getting Started

You can skip the Core ML part for non-Apple Silicon devices.

1. Run the following to clone [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp) repository
   ```
   git submodule init
   git submodule update
   ```
2. Build it with Core ML support by following its provided instructions.
3. Download the necessary ggml models and convert them to Core ML models as directed in the [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp) documentation.

## Audio extraction

**`extract_audio.sh`**

This script extracts the audio track from a video file in a format compatible with whisper.cpp. Ensure `ffmpeg` is installed for audio extraction. Use Homebrew to install it by running `brew install ffmpeg`.

Usage:
- Execute the script with two arguments: the input video file and the output audio file.
- For example: `./extract_audio.sh input_video.mp4 output_audio.wav`

## Generating subtitles

**`generate_subs.sh`**

This script uses whisper.cpp to create subtitles from an audio file. Before usage, configure the script with the location of your whisper.cpp installation and the desired model.

Usage:
- Run the script with two arguments: the input audio file and the output SRT file.
- For example: `./generate_subs.sh input_audio.wav subtitles.srt`

## Real-time transcribing

**`stream.sh`**

This script relies on whisper.cpp's `stream` binary to transcribe audio in real-time from an audio capture device.

If you're on Apple Silicon device, you can compile whisper.cpp's `stream` with Core ML support for better performance. Run the following in your whisper.cpp folder
```sh
WHISPER_COREML=1 make stream -j
```

Before usage, update the script with the location of your whisper.cpp installation, the chosen model, and the audio capturing device. Also, ensure that you have compiled the `stream` tool in whisper.cpp.

To find the list of available audio capture device IDs, execute the `stream` binary within whisper.cpp; it will display the supported devices.

Usage:
- Just run the script, for example: `./stream.sh`

#### Transcribing audio from system output

You can also transcribe live audio straight from your system's output using [BlackHole](https://github.com/ExistentialAudio/BlackHole) audio loopback driver.

This is how it works
![Visual Guide](https://github.com/tartakynov/whispercpp-scripts/assets/946309/6cc1f3a4-26c9-4d50-a19c-c2f88ef633c6)

What you need to do:
1. Open the Audio MIDI Setup utility on your MacOS and create a Multi-Output Device. Make sure to include your preferred speakers and BlackHole as your output devices.
2. Then, select this new Multi-Output Device as your sound output.
3. Finally, specify BlackHole as the audio capture device for whisper.cpp.

A quick demo showing transcribing real-time audio from your browser. Don't forget to turn up the volume! 🔊

[demo.webm](https://github.com/tartakynov/whispercpp-scripts/assets/946309/f821354e-2e1f-45c8-947f-025e2a4b244d)
